What is a qualitative interview?

    Kvale defines the qualitative interview as "an attempt to understand the world from the subjects' 
    point of view, to unfold the meaning of peoples' experiences, to uncover their lived world prior to scientific explanations."
    In simpler terms, the qualitative interview is a conversation directed by an interviewer with the end goal of extracting knowledge.

Name one or more types of qualitative interviews.

    Structured interview.
    In a structured interview there is a complete script that is pre-
    pared beforehand. There is no room for improvisation. These types of interviews are
    often used in surveys where the interviews are not necessarily conducted by the
    researcher.
    
    Unstructured or semi-structured interview
    . In an unstructured or semi-structured
    interview there is an incomplete script. The researcher may have prepared some
    questions beforehand, but there is a need for improvisation. The interviewer is the
    researcher or is one of a team.

    Group interview.
    In a group interview two or more people are interviewed at once
    by one or more interviewers. This type of interview can be structured or
    unstructured.

What are some difficulties of the qualitative interview?

    Artificiality of the interview
    The qualitative interview involves interrogating someone
    who is a complete stranger; it involves asking subjects to give or to create opinions
    under time pressure.
    
    Lack of trust 
    As the interviewer is a complete stranger, there is likely to be a concern
    on the part of the interviewee with regard to how much the interviewer can be trusted.
    This means that the interviewee may choose not to divulge information that he or she
    considers to be sensitive. If this is potentially important information for the research,
    the data gathering remains incomplete.
    
    Lack of time
    The lack of time for the interview may mean that the data gathering is
    incomplete. However, it can also lead to the opposite problem ? of subjects creating
    opinions under time pressure (when these opinions were never really held strongly to
    start with). In this case more data are gathered but the data gathered are not entirely
    reliable.
    
    Level of entry
    The level at which the researcher enters the organization is crucial
    For example, if a researcher enters at a lower
    level, it may prove difficult if not impossible to interview senior managers at a later date.
    In some organizations, talking to union members can bar access to management and
    vice versa. Additionally, gatekeepers may inhibit the researcher혖fs ability to access a
    broader range of subjects.

    Elite bias
    A researcher may interview only certain people of high status (key infor-
    mants) and therefore fail to gain an understanding of the broader situation.
    Miles and Huberman (1994)
    talk about the bias introduced in qualitative research by interviewing
    the stars in an organization. Elite bias concerns overweighting data from articulate,
    well-informed, usually high-status informants and, conversely, under-representing data
    from intractable, less articulate, lower-status ones.
    
    Hawthorne effects
    Qualitative interviews are intrusive and can potentially change the
    situation. The interviewer is not an invisible, neutral entity; rather, the interviewer is
    part of the interactions they seek to study and influences those interactions.
    The researcher may intrude upon the social setting and potentially interfere with peoples behaviour.
    
    Constructing knowledge
    Naive interviewers may think that they are like sponges, sim-
    ply soaking up data that is already there. They may not realise that, as well as gathering
    data, they are also actively constructing knowledge. In
    response to an interviewer, interviewees construct their stories they are reflecting
    on issues that they may have never considered so explicitly before. Interviewees usually
    want to appear knowledgeable and rational, hence the need to construct a story that is
    logical and consistent.
    
    Ambiguity of language
    The meaning of our words is often ambiguous, and it is not
    always clear that subjects fully understand the questions.
    Fontana and Frey (2000) say that asking questions and getting answers is a much harder task that it may seem
    at first. The spoken or written word has always a residue of ambiguity, no matter how
    carefully we word the questions or how carefully we report or code the answers.
    
    Interviews can go wrong
    Interviews are fraught with fears, problems and pitfalls. It is
    possible for an interviewer to offend or unintentionally insult an interviewee, in which
    case the interview might be abandoned altogether.
    
List some recommendations for qualitative interviewing

    Introduce yourself
    Name your background, experience, gender, age, and nationality. As the
    interviewer is not just a sponge, this information may be useful in the writing up, so that
    readers can assess the validity of the findings.

    Minimise social dissonance
    As the interview is a social encounter, it is important to minimise social dissonance 
    i.e. minimise anything that may lead to the interviewee to feel
    uncomfortable. This is generally thought of as a way to improve the quality of disclo-
    sure. This usually involves trying to manage first impressions, dressing appropriately,
    and using the appropriate language/jargon. Playing a part may mean playing different
    parts for different subjects (e.g. compare interviewing a CEO vs. a shop floor worker).
    Playing a part also means dressing up or dressing down as appropriate. Gender, age
    and culture may be important in some situations, depending upon the research topic.
    For example, a man might find it difficult to do research on some women혖fs organisa-
    tions if the interviewees perceive that the social dissonance is too great (i.e. the access
    to informants and disclosure might be minimal); in some cultures a male would not 
    be permitted to interview a female staff member; someone who is very young with little
    business experience might find it difficult to gain the respect and trust of a CEO of a large corporation.

    Represent various voices
    In qualitative research it usually necessary to interview a
    variety of people within an organisation. Finding different subjects is called triangulation of subjects, 
    where the idea is to try not to force one voice to emerge. Not all respondents are the same (e.g. some are guides, some are stars,
    others are gatekeepers). In this vein it is important to try to avoid elite bias.

    Everyone is an interpreter
    This guideline recognises that subjects are creative interpreters 
    of their worlds as we are of theirs. Interviewing is usually an artificial/rare event for
    most subjects. This means that the interview leads to creating and reading one or more
    texts (the initial text being the transcript of the interview).

    Use Mirroring in questions and answers
    Mirroring is taking the words and phrases
    the subjects use in constructing a subsequent question or comment: mirroring their
    comments. This allows the researcher to focus on the subjects혖f world and uses their
    language rather than imposing yours. The idea is for the interviewee to describe and
    explain their world in their own words. It is usually good practice to use open
    rather than closed questions, and to focus on common, vividly-held events and
    stories. It is also advisable to move from the general to the specific. The role of
    the interviewer involves listening, prompting, encouraging, and directing the
    conversation.

    Flexibility
    Semi-structured and unstructured interviewing uses an incomplete script
    and so requires flexibility, improvisation, and openness. The interviewer should be pre-
    pared to explore interesting lines of research, and look for surprises. As mentioned ear-
    lier, the interviewer should take account of subjects혖f differing attitudes (awed, bored,
    deceiving, fatigued, show off, shy, confessing) and respond accordingly.

    Confidentiality of disclosures
    It is important for researchers to keep transcripts/records/
    and the technology confidential and secure. It may be advisable sometimes to provide
    early feedback to subjects and organisations and to check with them about factual mat-
    ters if needed.